AUGURIUM

augurium, -i, [augur], n., ob-
servance of omens, divz'nalion,
augmy: omen.

augustus, -a, -um, [cf. auge6]‚
adj., consecrated, sacred ,· majes-
tic, noble.

Augustus, -i‚ [augustus] m.‚
Augustus, a title given to Octa-
vianus Caesar as emperor.

aulaeum, -ῐ, n., curlain, canopy.

aureus, -α, -um‚ [aurum], adj.,
of gold, golden.

auris, -is, [ef. audi6], f., ear.

aurum, -i, n., gold.

auspicium, -i, [avis, cf. speoi6],

n., divination by tlte fligrlzt os ”

birds, augury, auspices.

aut, conj.‚ marking an important
difference‚ or ,· corrective or em-
phatic, or at least, or rather, or
else. aut. . . aut, either . . . or.

autem, conj.‚ always postpositive,
but, however, moreover, aud now.

auxilium, -i, [cf. auge6]‚ n.,
help, aid‚· pl. often auxiliary
troops, auxiliaries.

avaritia, -ae, [avarus] f., greed,
avarice.

avarus, -ει, -um‚ adj., greeafig
grasping, covetous.

Aventinus, -i‚ m.‚ (sc. mbns), tlte
Aventine, the most southern of
the seven hills of Rome.

Aventinus, -a‚ -um, adj., os tlze
Aventine, on the Aventine.

ave6, -Ere, —‚ —‚ imper. avt-3,
ave-2²06, 2, n., only in salutations,
be well, fare well.

averti), -ere, averti, aversum,
[5.÷ vert6], 3, a., turn away,

15

 

 

BELLO

turn aside, keep (ζῇς avert. se

, avertere, lo turn aside.

avidus, -a, -um‚ adj., desirous,
eager‚ ἔνεστίν.

avis, -is, f., bird ,· sign, omen.

ἑνοοὸ, -ᾶῑθ, -avi, atum, [5 ψ
V006], Ι, a., call off, call away.

ἐνοΙὸ, -are, -ᾶνῑ, -atum, [εἱ-1-
V016], Ι, n., fly away ,· flee,
liasten away.

avunculus, -i‚ [dim. of avus]‚
m.‚ uncle.

avus, -i‚ m.‚ grandfather.

B.

baculum, -i‚ n., staff, slz'ck.

Bagrada, -ae‚ f., llze Bagrada, a
river in northern Africa, near
Utica.

ballista, —ae, f., ballista, an engine
for hurling stones, lzurling-
engine.

balneum, -i‚ n., batlz, batlzz'ng-place.

barba, -ae, f., heard.

barbarus, -a, -um‚ adj., os strange
speeclz, foreign, strange ,· barba-
rous, uncivilized. As subst„ bar-
barus, -i, sorezg‘lier, barbarian.

bellator, -6ris, [bell6], m.‚ war-
rior, soldier.

bellicbsus‚ -a‚ -um‚ [bellicus],
adj., warlike, given tofiglzling.

bellicus, -a, -um, [bellum], adj.,
ofwar, military‚· warlike. bel-
licum (sc. signum) canere,
give tlte signal for battle.

be116‚ -εῑΥθ, avi, -atum, [bel-
lum], 1, n., wage war, flglzt,
contend. '

